The President:
Hi, everybody.
Every year around this time,
American car companies start
rolling out their
newest, shiniest models,
hoping to entice
you into buying one.
It's Detroit's chance to show
you what they've been working on
-- the latest and greatest.
And this year is no exception.
They've got some pretty
good-looking cars coming out.
But something is different
this time around --
and it starts with the
auto companies themselves.
Just a few years ago, the auto
industry wasn't just struggling
-- it was flatlining.
GM and Chrysler were on
the verge of collapse.
Suppliers and distributors
were at risk of going under.
More than a million jobs across
the country were on the line --
and not just auto jobs,
but the jobs of teachers,
small business owners, and
everyone in communities that
depend on this great
American industry.
But we refused to throw in
the towel and do nothing.
We refused to let
Detroit go bankrupt.
I bet on American workers
and American ingenuity,
and three years later, that
bet is paying off in a big way.
Today, auto sales are the
highest they've been in more
than four years.
GM is back.
Ford and Chrysler
are growing again.
Together, our auto industry has
created nearly a quarter of a
million new jobs
right here in America.
And we're not just making
more cars and trucks --
we're making better ones.
After 30 years of inaction, we
raised fuel standards so that by
the middle of the next decade,
cars and light trucks will
average almost 55
miles per gallon --
nearly double what
they get today.
That means you'll only have to
fill up every two weeks instead
of every week.
It's good for your wallet,
it's good for our economy,
and it's good for
the environment.
The technology that makes it
happen will also help America
stay on the cutting edge
for decades to come.
Just this week, GM announced
they plan to hire 1,500 workers
for a new research center in
Michigan to help make sure the
high-tech cars of tomorrow are
designed and built right here
in America.
I've also signed new bipartisan
trade agreements into law,
because I want to see more cars
on the road in places like South
Korea imported from Detroit
and Toledo and Chicago.
All of this is something the
American people can and should
be proud of.
It's a reminder that when the
American people put their mind
to something, there's
nothing we can't do.
So next time you see one of
those brand new 2013 models on
TV or on the lot, think about
how far we've come together.
Think about how -- thanks to the
hard work and can-do spirit of
the American people -- more of
those cars and trucks are being
manufactured by American
workers at American companies in
communities all
across the country.
And they're going to save
you more money at the pump.
That's what America's all about.
When we get knocked
down, we get back up.
We come back stronger.
And as long as I'm President,
that's what we'll keep doing.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.